---
title: "Lab Meeting"
date: 2021-07-15T00:00:00+00:00  # Update with date. You can leave the time as 0's if unsure.
draft: false  # Change to false
authors: ["LauraCarter"]  # Comma separated list of authors surrounded by double quotes. E.g. ["kirstiewhitaker", "janedoe"]
categories: blog  # DO NOT CHANGE
tags: []  # List of tags
---

### Attendees

> *Please add your name below*
> Add ðŸ¤« if you don't want your name added to the GitHub record
> Add a fun emoji as we're all remote for the time being :rocket: :star2: :rabbit: 

* Laura :goat::bookmark: 
* Emma :sunflower: 
* Arielle :eye-in-speech-bubble: 
* Georgia :rabbit2: 
* Sowmya :large_orange_diamond: 
* Malvika :dash: 
* Aida :baby_bottle: 
* Kirstie :books: 

### Apologies :blowfish: 

> *Please add your name below if you are not able to attend the meeting. Don't forget to complete the sections below, even if you are not able to attend.*
> Add ðŸ¤« if you don't want your name added to the GitHub record

* Patricia :compression: 
* Sarah :bed: - resting up before the evening's panel
* Sophia :beach_with_umbrella: (not really at a beach but trying to decompress)
* Maria - in the countryside and struggling with wifi 
* Ismael (added by Kirstie)

### What do you want the lab members to know about?

> *Please add a bullet point with something you'd like the lab members to know about. You may respond to any of the points before or after the lab meeting, no need to wait until the 1 hour time slot! Please add your initials and use the* ðŸ¤« *emoji if you would like the bullet point removed from the GitHub record.*

* :goat::books: There was a bit of interest in hearing about the Decolonising Research Methodologies course that Laura has been taking for the past few weeks, so this week's Goatherd Recommended Reading is going to be loosely based on what I've been reading and thinking about for the course.
    * :seedling: Monday: Alcoff L, â€˜The Problem of Speaking for Othersâ€™ [1991] Cultural Critique 5 <https://www.jstor.org/stable/1354221>. Alcoff problematises the issue of â€˜speaking for othersâ€™ and argues that this is always political. Itâ€™s a really thought-provoking piece about the things we think about (or should think about) when deciding whether to speak about a particular issue. For me, the most insightful part is her analysis of why â€˜retreat from speech,â€™ i.e. choosing to stay silent, is also a political decision, that emerges from a particular kind of position and has its own consequences. 
    	* Georgia: lots of the AutSPACEs community discussion lately has been around 'speaking on behalf of others' and how to avoid this dynamic of pseudo-inclusion - and when neurotypical people need to speak out in solidarity and when to shut up. It also made me think about Baraka's intrepretation of 'cool jazz', (like Miles Davis'), as being a kind of deliberate, aloof non-participation - non-participation being a rational response to racism. https://gato-docs.its.txstate.edu/jcr:5bb75098-a78f-4468-b69c-096c2ba574e9/JazzandtheWhiteCritic.pdf - he also writes amazingly about the problems of white people talking about jazz music. 
    * :leaves: Tuesday: Lorde A, â€˜The Masterâ€™s Tools Will Never Dismantle the Masterâ€™s House (1984)â€™, Sister Outsider: Essays and Speeches (Crossing Press 2007) <https://collectiveliberation.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/Lorde_The_Masters_Tools.pdf>. This is a classic for a reason. Lorde argues that we cannot achieve radical change if we align ourselves to, and try to advance within, a hierarchical system: and that instead of trying to ignore differences between us, we should see them as a source of creativity and strength. It's also worth noting that she was pointing out the absence of diverse voices in academia - in this case, Black, poor, and lesbian voices - in 1984, i.e. before many of us were even born. Plus Ã§a change...
    * :herb: Wednesday: Crenshaw K, â€˜Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence Against Women of Colorâ€™ in D Kelly Weisberg (ed), Applications Of Feminist Legal Theory (Temple University Press 1996) <https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt14bs8md.30>. Another Crenshaw piece this week, this time a really concrete exploration of intersectional discrimination. Crenshaw looked at the experiences of women of colour in domestic violence shelters in Los Angeles in the 90s, and found that policy responses to DV were at best ignoring them, and at worst actively excluding them from support. Her research is from the mid-90s, but it definitely resonated with my experience working in a DV charity in London in the late 00s, and with what I've seen in activism and organising more broadly. 
    * :palm_tree: Thursday: â€˜Accomplices Not Allies: Abolishing the Ally Industrial Complexâ€™ (Indigenous Action Media, 4 May 2014) <https://www.indigenousaction.org/accomplices-not-allies-abolishing-the-ally-industrial-complex/> This is a provocative piece, unpacking some of the issues that arise in a world of professionalised NGOs doing social justice work, and more broadly about how 'ally' risks becoming an identity term, not a description of what someone is doing, and the problems that can result. It's an uncomfortable read but a good one.
    * :deciduous_tree: Friday: Jemisin NK, â€˜The Ones Who Stay and Fightâ€™ [2020] Lightspeed Magazine <https://www.lightspeedmagazine.com/fiction/the-ones-who-stay-and-fight/>. This is a reprint from her short story collection *How Long til Black Future Month* which I highly recommend if you like speculative short fiction. It's a response to another short story, 'The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas' by Ursula le Guin, which is itself a response to...utilitarianism, I suppose. Jemisin and le Guin propose different solutions, and even if it's more work, I think I like Jemisin's better.
* Laura will be in Texas from 21 July - 12 August, and probably mostly offline while there. If you need anything from her before mid-August, now is the time to let her know!
* Emma's week has been thoroughly scuppered by a COVID outbreak at her sons school: she's still trying to get lots done and also attend some sessions at the SORTEE conference, which I think is an exciting new organisation related to my field so keen to see what they are up to.  Emma is also off next week (to legoland! :grin:) and also going to try and work a bit less over the summer as due to the funding situation with FAIR phytos project we have pushed back the start date to september. She plans to work tues, weds, thurs over the summer and have long weekends. 
* Sarah is just keeping going, trying to get Hubs up for various stakeholders. Max has been wanting to play a lot at around 3am so my sleep has been super disrupted :tired_face: 
* Patricia survived running her event - it was not as bad as it could have been but also highlighted the need for some good checklists and more planning going forward! Now on to shortlisting and planning interviews :muscle: 
* Sophia is on her first week of actual "leave" and having a battle between paralysis of "don't do the things, just rest" and "ooooh I could do that thing!". Sending good vibes everyones' way. 
* Arielle is getting things set up for several calls and contracts at the moment which is time consuming but fun in a very nerdy way :sunglasses: 
    * :loudspeaker: **TODAY'S TPS COFFEE** is featuring [Mine the Gaps](http://minethegaps.manchester.ac.uk/) - a project from a Manchester Turing fellow Caroline Jay & her RSE Ann Gledson - if you're free at 2:30 it would be brilliant to see you - this is an event that's been driven by her engagement and it'd be nice to reward it with a big audience! 
* Georgia wanst to say congrats to Susanna Fantoni from the AutsPACEs project for her amazing contribution to a panel on ethics of community participation for the Autistica festival. I was thinking it would be great if she could give a presentation to the lab sometime on her work on co-created moderation? 
* Sowmya: This week was kind of gave mixed feelings for me since my internship in the lab is coming to an end and I would definitely miss working on this project full time. Hoping to bounce back as an open source contributor once I finish my break. I had such a positive environment and great vibes which I had never felt in any of my previous lab internships. Everyone in here is super helpful and encouraging as well. Thank you so much :green_heart: Also I would like to mention that the webinars in Autistica Research festival was fantastic and I loved the talks. 
    * [name=Sarah] WE WILL MISS YOU SOWMYA! :sparkles:
    * [name=Malvika] Lots of wishes to you Sowmya. We hope to stay connected with you even after you finish your internship. :sunflower: 
    * [name=Emma] It's been great to have you and you have made such a valuable contribution to the Autspaces project. :star: 
    * [name=Kirstie] It has been SO GREAT to have you with us for 3 months **Sowmya** the time has absolutely flown by! Have an amazing vacation before you get to go home, and hopefully we'll still see you through the AutSPACEs project :sparkles:
    * [name=Arielle] You've done amazing work on the project - thank you for being a wonderful lab member too :sparkles: 
* Sarah went to a Carpentries discussion on the [docker lesson](https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/docker-introduction/) currently in the Incubator last night (another 10pm webinar - LOLZ) It was a really great discussion! I suggested a few extra references ([10 simple rules for writing Dockerfiles](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008316) and Tania's talk on [Python and Docker for data science/ML](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jq68axbKIbg) from PyCon US) and I'm basically super-keen to try this lesson out!
* Malvika is back today after a a very rewarding discussion and brainstorming with Kirstie on community development/support strategy as well as governance for the Turing Way. This is something I have been thinking and working on for about a year and it feels like a right time to kick off the process. It will be a great opportunity to have folks who engaged with the project in a deep level to take on convening roles and lead of things that align with your interest/career. I hope to get this out as soon as possible and can't wait to get your feedback on it.
  * [name=Kirstie] My share was going to be that I had a wonderful time with **Malvika** yesterday in Greenwich Park!! She's done SO MUCH thinking about open source governance for The Turing Way. MEGA GRATEFUL Malvika and SO excited!
    * (Pics added to the slack channel!)
* Aida feels like my summer projects are properly kicking off on Monday. I feel like I'll get to inbox zero on Monday. I just feel like a new wave of productivity is looming. :heart_eyes_cat: :laughing: 

### What would you like lab members' opinion(s) on?

> *Please add a bullet point with something you'd like lab members' opinion on. You may respond to any of the points before or after the lab meeting, no need to wait until the 1 hour time slot! Please add your initials and use the* ðŸ¤« *emoji if you would like the bullet point removed from the GitHub record.*

* [name=Sarah] Can I remind folk to reflect on their notes from the design sprint last week and add their own little blurb about the Lab to [this HackMD](https://hackmd.io/@whitakerlab/B1oB6PWld) so I can pull together a PR for the website home page?
    * [Core slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1EaKvBsf_D9MQXEgiG35l2h6i3NSsPO8C3FS0gzcc-U8/edit?usp=sharing)
    * [Exercise slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zpMEqKnwEp3zZbmCPgLUZD6BI61K_VDMRko0raOzsk8/edit?usp=sharing)
* [name=Sophia] Gist of the question = breadth vs depth. 
    * If someone asked you to write a report and give a 30min presentation for a random topic (eg. research windows in New York) would **you** personally be incined to do breadth (cover lots of material) or depth (one area deeply). 
    	* [name=Patricia] Oh, interesting one. Probably breadth when I don't know the topic because I find context easier than doing depth well (also depends on the audience and their knowledge).
    	* [name=Laura] Breadth for me as well, unless I thought the audience wanted a deep dive into a particular bit of the topic. 
    	* [name=Arielle] I would probably aim at depth, but that is because that's a typical style for me 
    	* [name=Kirstie] My gut response is that I'd likely do both and put far too much time into the project. I also think my answer is different for report and presentation. I think my report would be deep and presentation broad. Probably because I think the purposes of those media are different. Great question though, I've never though about my biases along those lines before!
* [name=Sophia] Q for TTW folks (and can then be taken to TTW slack). Would a style guide for presentations on TTW be helpful? During prep for the workshop last week it was mentioned how "borrowing" from different slide decks is a touch hard at times because things aren't uniform. I'm not coming at it from a prescriptive sense, more the design "soul". Things that "could" be included would be (ie. HEX codes for colour schemes, font guides (accessibility focused), typography guidelines, citation/source refering guide). The goal isn't uniformity, it's more like a "this is the family and everyone has their spin on it". 
    * [name=Arielle] YES! Also things like a link to a template and reiterating the Scriberia images on Zenodo might be useful for people who want it? 
    * [name=Malvika] That would be fantastic, Sophia. Based on the guide you design, the [promotion pack](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/tree/master/communications/promotion-pack), [templates](/community-handbook/templates.html) and the [style guide](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/style.html) can be updated. (maybe all of these are in need of some review and updating) 
        * A colleague from LatinR (Yanina, on TTW slack) also offered to create a 'visual identity manual' (see [her work here in Spanish](https://github.com/LatinR/identidad-visual-latinR/blob/master/Manual_Identidad_Visual_LatinR_2020.pdf)). Happy to put you in touch with her as she would be delighted to have someone work with her in English as she works on the Spanish version.
    * [name=Kirstie] Love this - I'm WILDLY picky about layout on slides and I think enhancing the templates we already have is a great idea.
* [name=Arielle] It's been a while since I did this so: recipe requests! What's your signature dish? Doesn't have to be fancy but what's the one you make to impress/feed all your friends?
	* [name=Patricia] Mushroom & sun-dried tomato risotto
	* [name=Laura] I miss feeding a crowd :cry:  [bean shakshuka](https://www.budgetbytes.com/smoky-white-bean-shakshuka/) (worked very well for brunches although tbh I could eat it any time) or [peanut chicken stew](https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/spicy-african-chicken-stew)
	* [name=Sophia] my go to is always risotto - the "key" is the garlic, onion & wine base. This is also a treat! [Chicken Cajun One Pot](https://www.budgetbytes.com/one-pot-creamy-cajun-chicken-pasta/)
	* [name=Emma] Very easy but also super delicious is [Jamie Oliver's Fantastic fish pie](https://www.jamieoliver.com/recipes/fish-recipes/fantastic-fish-pie/) - good for making when friends come as you can prep it before and then shove in the oven when needed. Needs chunky bread to soak up all the delicious sauce that's left on your plate. :yum: :fish: 
	* [name=Sowmya] A very tasty Indian dish called called Gobi Manchurian (made of cauliflower) is amazing and also vegan.You can either bake the cauliflower or deep fry it. [Must Try Gobi Manchurian](https://www.instagram.com/reel/CPbLC8_Fevw/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link) Have fun!!
	* [name=Kirstie] LOVE the question! My fun discovery is making a peanut stir fry sauce from peanut butter, some hot water to thin it, the juice of a lime and a couple of tablespoons of tamari soy sauce. It's amazing! Great served with fried tofu :yum: 
* [name=Georgia] I'm turning 30 on the 21st July :scream_cat: Any advice how to turn 30? 
    * [name=Arielle] With good people, and a day spent doing exactly what you want to do - it's a lot of fun being in your 30s!
    	* [name=Georgia] :heart: I am so excited! I think my 30s will be the best years of my life so far /Update - my sister wrote me a whole song cycle ! :scream_cat: I will share when I get to listen to them on the 21st <3 
        * [name=Laura] +1 to your 30s being fun! Definitely my favourite decade by far. Enjoy the song cycle!
        * [name=Emma] Oh we have a very close birthday :balloon: - I'm the 20th July! Just have a great time and eat lots of cake :cake: 
        * [name=Sowmya] Have fun Georgia!! :green_heart: Just don't think too much and party like crazy :laughing: 
        * [name=Malvika] write your younger self a love letter, and tell her that you turned out to be an amazing human that your younger self must feel very proud of :D I did not write that - but I did do a 'f$$k society and social expectations toast' to leave behind all the unrealistic expectation people/tradition hold for women in 30s. Have fun with the people you love. :heart: 
        * [name=Aida] Love Malvika's advice! Happy birthday!!
    * [name=Kirstie] I LOVE ALL THIS ADVICE OMG! Happy birthday Georgia! :yellow_heart: 
    * [name=Patricia] I have vague memories of getting a proper balloon for the first time in my life (Pinkie Pie) and some ice cream. Basically I celebrated 30 like a 5 year old :joy: As long as you enjoy it, you can't go wrong!
* [name=Kirstie] Question too late to really engage BUT I'm curious to know what folks think about sending interview questions in advance of an interview. Has anyone done it? I've seen it being advised as an accessibility support for disabled / neurodivergent applicants. I'm wondering if we should just aim to do it for _all_ candidates? Maybe get some more exciting answers?? Break down the biases around who does well under pressure in an interview?
    * [name=Arielle] I've asked people to prepare presentations & I'm in favour of sending over some questions in advance - although my expectations of the quality of the answers would be higher (and I'd still want to ask some un-seen questions to see how they respond on the fly) - would do it for all candidates as it's not something I think most people know could even *be* an accessibility support in interviews!


## Agenda

| Time          | Event              |
|:------------- | ------------------ |
| 09:00 - 09:10 | HackMD run through |
| 09:10 - 09:55 | Round Robin Update: A slide from everyone and 3 minutes each on what youâ€™re working on - Also Sowmyaâ€™s last day! |
| 09:55 - 10:00 | Next week plan/RAM |
* [name=Patricia] I'm the next goatherder, are people still fine doing personal user manuals? If so, I'll set something up and send around instructions.
    * [name=Sophia] I'm down for it! 
    * [name=Kirstie] YES, love it!

### Shared Notes

* Round Robin update [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-WcnFhEm4yocVi63X5RbgMEjm2Octiar4OlvoZrQZBg/edit?usp=sharing) and plan to speak for 2-3 minutes on what you're up to at the moment.
* Emma's blogs:
    * [Making your research outputs accessible to wider audiences](https://software.ac.uk/blog/2021-07-07-making-your-research-outputs-accessible-wider-audiences)
    * [Evolving the office work culture](https://software.ac.uk/blog/2021-06-30-evolving-office-work-culture)
    * The Open Archaeobotanist - [open repositories series](https://ekaroune.github.io/The-Open-Archaeobotanist/) 

Picture of the Lab for Sowmya's last day!
![](https://i.imgur.com/2Y0fWBx.jpg)

