---
layout: post
title: Lab Meeting on 01 August 2019 
categories: blog
excerpt: Notes from the group's weekly lab meeting
tags: [lab-meeting] ### INSERT TAGS IF APPLICABLE
image:
  feature:
link:
date: 2019-01-08 
modified:
share: true
author: GeorgiaHCA
---

This week’s lab meet was petite but by no means picayune! 
We discussed ways to learn physics, Neurohackademy, and how to build trust and confidence in a group. 
Thanks Kirstie, Isla, and Sarah for your tips, suggestions, and a super interesting conversation!

## Celebrations and cool things to share

**Kirstie** is finding Neurohackademy great so far – with lots of awesome talks! Here are a select few :point_down:
  * Codeclimate for readable code: [https://codeclimate.com](https://codeclimate.com)
  * Intro to git: http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide
  * The most fantastic git resource: https://ohshitgit.com
  * A bunch of thing you can do with Jupyer: https://blog.jupyter.org/i-python-you-r-we-julia-baf064ca1fb6
  * A great project template for a research project: https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science

**Georgia** (and Kirstie) got ethics approval for the Citizen Science Project – the day has finally arrived! YAY! 
The GitHub repository and survey are now live, and we’ve sent an email to the project’s mailing list to launch it. :rocket:
The repo for the project is now live and you can visit it here: https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AutisticaCitizenScience.
There's also a live survey for suggestions about the project: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe_9MW3r4nsGUDxGWN24X88hqtz6q_347DC1gbMc_Yzj2Hrcg/viewform
And you can sign up to the mailing list here: 
https://tinyletter.com/AutisticaTuringCitizenScience

## Questions we're thinking about

**Isla** is in the midst of writing her dissertation, and is wondering how to pinpoint the right level of detail needed.
Because she’s used to sharing knowledge and making things clear 🧡, it can be heard to work out the right level of explanation for other experts. 
A top tip for writing from **Sarah** is to start with bullet points and then build up a path of what else needs explaining.

**Georgia** wants to know how to help people help each other in the lab meetings.
  * Sarah suggested that since she doesn’t have the domain knowledge to help everyone, it would be better to talk about technical challenges, and she would be better able to help.
  * Georgia suggested having some kind of shared goal which we can all work together on. 
  * Isla suggested being explicit and bringing an extremely practical problem everyone could on.
  * Sarah  suggested something like a coding club - maybe there could be a small problem but one entirely contained within the meeting? Something like REG tech talks. 

**Sarah** Wants tips on working on a project if the content is overwhelming (a.k.a anyone familiar with Guassian Processes? :sweat_smile:)

**Kirstie** has been thinking a lot about the need for trust in communities – specifically, that we need to trust each other to be able to ask each other questions. 
She’s been thinking about what the barriers to trust are in the group are. She’d love to know what has worked in the past to build a supportive team and environment.
We discussed whether shyneess or lack of self-confidence could be treated using exposure therapy, and **Sarah** suggested that a good way to strike a balance is to find a friendly audience to start with (but definitely not to avoid speaking or assertion entirely).
We also discussed the Binder community and what makes it supportive. According to **Sarah**, it helps to have EMOJIS!!! :sparkles: :sparkling_heart: :smiley:.
Also, never missing an opportunity to remind people they're doing a good job helps. This is very important in the Binder community because they're so distributed.

**Georgia** would like ideas about the best ways of learning physics!
**Sarah** suggests looking at science videos on YouTube! There are also fun experiments that you can do yourself at home, for example experimenting with static electricity using balloons - stay away from dry manuals
.Check out: :point_down:
  * https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=kurzgesagt 
	* (Or find someone who’s a physicist and ask them to explain directly)

**Isla** gave this awesome (wise) advice: You start learning about physics when you're a baby when you pick things up and drop them to see what happens – carry on with this attitude. Stay curious! :baby::woman::older_woman:

## Anything else

We also had a general discussion about astrophysics, maths, and academia. 
Academia can feel like SHOUTING into the void (but you are making the domain of humanity’s knowledge a little larger, which is kinda cool).
We discussed the fact that academic conferences can be brutal, and how we deal with it.  
Many people have problems because of their own biases, which it’s important to bear this in mind.
Top tip from **Sarah**: if you don't have anything nice to say, say “it's more of a comment than a question” :smirk:
**Isla** pointed out the most important thing is to BE KIND: being kind and listening can be disarming and a good strategy for dealing with criticism :revolving_hearts:

