---
layout: post
title: Lab Meeting on 26 September 2019 ### REPLACE `DATE` with the date, eg: 18 July 2019
categories: blog
excerpt: Notes from the group's weekly lab meeting ### ADD a short description (or keep that one if you'd)
tags: [lab-meeting] ### INSERT TAGS IF APPLICABLE
image:
  feature:
link:
date: 2019-09-26 ### UPDATE date
modified:
share: true
author: kirstie_whitaker ### CHANGE to your author name (in _data/authors.yml)
---

INTRO PARAGRAPH - replace this paragraph with an overview of the meeting.

Try to add a picture if you can.



## Celebrations and cool things to share

**Kirstie** is delighted to welcome Malvika Sharan to the lab.
She's currently working one day per week as she finishes up her responsibilities at EMBL in Heidelberg
* [name=Kirstie] NOT LASTLY: I'm delighted that Malvika officially joined the lab yesterday. She's working 1 day per week on The Turing Way until January and then will be our full time community manager. I'm so so glad she's joining us :heart_eyes:
  * https://twitter.com/MalvikaSharan/status/1176187803094462464?s=20
* [name=Patricia] I'm also preparing for a session on the management of computational notebooks where I'm supposed to talk about preservation. Thanks to the awesome Tim, I actually understand the issues now and don't feel stupid talking about it :smile: We also might write this up as a short paper/ Turing Way contribution.
  * [name=Malvika] Both sound awesome! Would love to hear more about the principle of preservation. I had recently visited our archive to explore the idea of history and compare it with GitHub (later is far more advanced but the first one is more consciously designed.)
* [name=Yo] I've just come across this nice paper: https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007296   "Ten simple rules for helping newcomers become contributors to open projects" - unsurprisingly Greg Wilson, founder of The Carpentries, is one of the authors.
  * [name=Yini] Thanks for the recommendation.
* [name=Yo] [Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/) is coming soon. Yay! If you haven't tried it before it's a great way to start making little contributions to open source projects, or to bring others into your project - and you get a nice t-shirt too :sparkles:
  * [name=Malvika] Is it about contribution only? or do you have small exercises like in advent of code?
    * [name=Yo] It's about contribution - but it definitely doesn't have to be code contributions! Could be design, docs, etc... so long as it results in a PR.
    * [name=Yo] I also want to add: one of my current InterMine team members made their first contribution to the team via hacktoberfest. We encouraged them to apply for a vacancy and they turned out to be the best candidate, which was amaaaazing! :trophy:
  * [name=Sarah] I really want a t-shirt, they're so cool! :sparkling_heart: Update: I registered!
  * [name=Isla] Contributing documentation can be a great way to get involved with a project. It's a good way to familiarise yourself, and the best documentation often comes from someone who is not overfamiliar.
  * [name=Kirstie] Reproducible research lunches starting again on Monday 30 September - the first one is about Hacktoberfest! Spread the word.
    * https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/ReproducibleResearchResources/issues/19
      * (Would love suggestions for future sessions!)
* [name=Christina] Would recommend travelling to St. Petersburg if you are ever curious abour Russia :) Moscow is just kind of meh
* [name=Malvika] As of yesterday, I am an official member of the Team Whitaker. I still have mssive imposter syndrome and fear of failure because I am still working in my current project and want to start contributing to Turing Way (and don’t want to do messy job)! but overall very excited!!
  * [name=Yo] :tada: :dancer:
  * [name=Elizabeth] So excited to see all of the amazing things you'll accomplish, @Malvika !
  * [name=Yini] :sparkles::sparkles::sparkles:
  * [name=Isla] Welcome Malvika!
  * [name=Tania] Exciting stuff Malvika :star2:
  * Thank you everyone! You are the most welcoming bunch :)
* [name=Malvika] Any Turing tip from the locals will be awesome as I am amazed by how many hidden Narnia rooms exist in the British Library for The Turing Institute :heart_eyes:  :heart_eyes:
  * [name=Patricia] Yay :sparkling_heart: :-1: on imposter syndrom. We had a lot of that when starting on the #TuringWay and you will be fine  (Thank you Patricia :innocent:)
  * [name=Sarah] If you want biscuits/fruit, arrive early! (haha, I have seen the pantry boxes :D)
  * [name=Louise] The tea cupboard is the best! It isn't anyone's private stash so do go explore it if the normal stuff gets boring :smile: (hehe! I will :))
  * [name=Louise] And my more practical hint for the Turing is - book meeting rooms early!  (I saw the room board)
  * [name=Alex] Walk around the British Library before the general public are allowed in! (cool!)
  * [name=Alex] Check-out Chalton Street next to the British Library. It has a market and lots of great food establishments. In particular, Mai Sushi! (Sounds cool! we need to put these in a list of secret tips for whitaker-ers.)
* [name=Sarah] Ran my first "Learn Azure" session for the "Living with Machines" group. I'm now officially exhausted.
  * Repo: https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/learn-azure
  * [name=Yini] Thank you for your hard work. It looks great and detailed.
  * [name=Malvika] Congrats! The repo and the content look really nice.
* [name=Yo] Applications are open for the [2020 Software Sustainability Fellowships](https://software.ac.uk/news/applications-fellowship-programme-2020-are-now-open)! Malvika, Patricia, and I are fellows already and I'd definitely recommend it for the networking and collaborations workshop alone, but fellows are also awarded £3,000 to spend over 15 months.
  * [name=Sarah] :tada:
* [name=Louise] If any of you are interested in learning Spark, we're hosting a [two-day workshop](https://www.turing.ac.uk/events/introduction-spark-data-scientists) at the Turing at the end of October :grinning: It's being run by some of our group's collaborators from the Living with Machines project, and it's sounding great from what I've heard so far! (Logistics stuff - the workshop is free but no accommodation or food provided.)
  * [name=Kirstie] I've heard of Spark (and i just did a quick google) but I'm not super sure what I'd use it for.... What would you recommend Louise (or anyone else who uses it!)
* [name=Elizabeth] I'm not sure if folks already saw [ImageNet Roulette](https://imagenet-roulette.paglen.com/) (it's only online till Friday if you haven't checked it out !) but I was pleasantly surprised that the public outcry led ImageNet to scrub about half (!) of their "people" category: https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/technology/everyday-people-how-a-massive-picture-database-sparked-a-discussion-about-ai-and-bias/ar-AAHy5Jy
* [name=Ang] Recommends a must learn Python package (if you're using pandas Dataframe and doing statistics) [Pingous](https://pingouin-stats.org), happy to find this and soon play with it.
  * [name=Yini] :smirk: I would like to try. Thanks for your recommendation.
  * [name=Alex] So cool. I haven't had an opportunity to use this yet. Also check out [Dask](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/array.html)
* [name=Alex] 🤫 Over the past few months I have had to reapply to Cambrdige and jump through many admin hoops in order to change Department for my PhD. As of today, I have successfully transfered! A big thank-you has to go out to Kirstie who has been a great support and a voice of reason and motivation throughout the entire process. I probably would not have stuck with it if it hadn't been for Kirstie and the rest of the Turing community.
* [name=Yini] Recommend a good tool which named NeuroPower. It could improve the power and consequently reproducibility of research,because it helps researchers decide the sample size before experiment.
[url: http://neuropowertools.org/neuropower/neuropowerstart/].
* [name=Georgia] Thanks Yini and Ang and Patricia for helping me test out the Open Science game I helped design at the eLife sprint. I'm writing a game report for the team. Any suggestions on improvements?


## Questions we're thinking about


## Anything else


---

DELETE EVERYTHING BELOW THE LINE AFTER YOU'VE READ IT!

To create a new lab meeting blog post:

1. Make a copy of this file and save it in the `_posts/blog` directory with a name that follows the convention: `YYYY-MM-DD-YYYY-MM-DD-labmeeting.md`
  * For example: `_posts/blog/2017-04-28-2017-04-28-lab-meeting.md`
  * You need the DOUBLE DATE because the first date gets stripped from the url, so if you want the date to appear you need to enter it twice!
2. In your new file update the header information:
  * Update the title by replacing "DATE" on line 3 with the date
  * [OPTIONAL] Add tags by adding them inside the square brackets above and separating with commas, or just keep the default,
    * Eg: `[lab-meeting, open-humans]`
  * Update the date with today's date (or the date you want the post to go live) by replacing the date on line 9.
    * Double check that this is the same date as in the heading.
    * Make sure that the date is formatted as `YYYY-MM-DD`.
  * Change the author if you aren't `kirstie_whitaker` :wink:

3. Write the blog post! You can use markdown to format the text. Check out this handy dandy [markdown cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) by [adam-p](https://github.com/adam-p).
  * You can follow the headings outlined above, or make up your own.
  * Pictures are really good. Make a subfolder in the `images` folder and add them there.
