# Whitaker Lab Meeting | 06 May 2021

Bios!

### Attendees

* Laura :goat::books: 
* Sowmya :goal_net: 
* Emma :sunflower: 
* Lotty :sun_with_face: 
* Isla :mount_fuji: 
* Arielle :deciduous_tree: 
* Sarah :sleeping:
* Georgia :leaves: 
* Sophia :zebra_face: 
* Aida :blue_book: 
* Kirstie :sun_with_face: 
* Malvika :coconut: 

### Apologies :blowfish: 

* Patricia - it's project meeting week again :key: 
* Maxine 
* Georgia :sleeping: I slept through my alarm!! I am so sorry :( 

### What do you want the lab members to know about?

* [name=Laura] :goat::books: Goatherd recommended reading this week:
    * :red_circle: [‘The Cambist and Lord Iron’](https://www.lightspeedmagazine.com/fiction/the-cambist-and-lord-iron-a-fairy-tale-of-economics/) (if you prefer audio fiction, you can also listen to it on [Podcastle](https://podcastle.org/2009/05/06/pc051-the-cambist-and-lord-iron/)). It’s a modern(ish) fairy tale about economics and power, which manages to be both mildly educational and a good read
      * [name=Kirstie] This looks super interesting - and I love an audiobook / podcast! Thank you!
    * :yellow_heart:  Seltzer W and Anderson M, ‘[The Dark Side of Numbers: The Role of Population Data Systems in Human Rights Abuses](https://www.jstor.org/stable/40971467).’ (2001) It’s quite a sobering overview of the way in which systems for collecting population data have been misused: and what needs to be in place to mitigate this abuse. 
    * :green_apple: Human Rights Watch report: '[Automated Hardship](https://www.hrw.org/report/2020/09/29/automated-hardship/how-tech-driven-overhaul-uks-social-security-system-worsens).' There are lots of things wrong with the UK's benefits system in general and with Universal Credit in particular: this report goes into detail about how one particular technological design choice - the period over which income is monitored for the purpose of calculating benefits - has a really nasty impact on people who are already living in or close to poverty.
    * :large_blue_diamond: ‘[Me Not You: the trouble with mainstream feminism](https://manchesteruniversitypress.co.uk/9781526155801/)’ by Alison Phipps is a really incisive look at UK feminist organising and how it offers a very narrow vision of what change should look like, which not only ignores but actively harms people who are not middle-class white women. I know a lot of people in the lab really liked Data Feminism and I think this book speaks to a lot of the same values that underpin that, so I think the lab will like it!
* [name=Laura] I got a 'revise and resubmit' on a journal article, which I suppose is better than an outright rejection. Onwards!
* [name=Sowmya] I started working on the topic of templates in Django where I successfully created various model apps and accordingly HTML files.I also learnt how to create forms which I think is important for the sharing the stories section. This was all done on my local host. I am also beginning to understand rendering of data from the Database model as well. :rocket: Also the Open Humans community meet on Self-Tracking Data was really insightful. 
* [name=Emma] Doing lots of bitty tasks this week - helping with the Turing Way Bookdash organisation :book: , keeping my beady eye :eyes: on DECOVID things, trying to finish first drafts of Turing Way chapters, fitting in some microscopy work :microscope: inbetween and starting to work on FAIR Phytoliths Project (mostly boring admin but some slightly more exciting project planning). 
* [name=Patricia] First BSL session was super interesting - I don't realize how much zoom is tailored to abled people, so just for that it's worth it! I'm really bad at blocking my time to attend the next courses (and turn down really uninspiring other meetings diplomatically instead), so let's see how much following through I will do. Work is plotting on, nothing super inspiring happening at the moment.
* [name=Arielle] It's reporting season and for once I feel mostly ahead of the curve! Now need to plan how to use the feedback and reports we've received...
* [name=Lotty] Onboarding pack is coming along nicely and have done a first draft of a participation/comms strategy :smile: I feel like there is still a lot that could be added but it's a good first go at getting myself organised and ready!
* [name=Georgia] I was finding it really hard to concentrate on a single task, especially writing, so I'm going to try 9:30-10:30 slack hours and then give myself some blocked out time for deep focus work. I'll let you all know how it goes!
* [name=Sophia] I'm back and swinging into the week, chewing through emails, getting writing done, and trying to distract myself from waiting to hear back from my current supervisors about setting a meeting time to discuss the change. It's made me think a lot about what an ideal situation/outcome looks like and figuring out how to ask for it in a logical way. 
* [name=Sophia] we may need to update the links within this doc 
    - lab meeting schedule is linked to github and only goes to summer last year 
        - may want to update it with the content here https://hackmd.io/BRwJZ5TwSTKMFRnbADHVcg
    - useful doc could maybe link can link to - https://hackmd.io/@whitakerlab/note-of-notes 
    - it'll involve updating the template but I just noticed when I went to follow a link
        - .....should I....make a PR? 
    - [name=Kirstie] A PR would be great - and potentially an update to the :goat: herder task to keep the GitHub repo up to date too?
* [name=Aida] I am preparing a presentation to the ASG Managamenet Board meeting next weekabout the purpose and value-add of a RAM. I am tempted to talk a little about the wider data science & AI landscape in which Turing finds itself in: mentioning the govt network of Catapults, The Ada Lovelace Institute, the ODI... as well as all the private sector players. I think there has always been an expectation that Turing would fill in some of the gaps in the ecosystem by taking a lead on delivering technical aspects of concepts like data trusts. RAMs facilitate the delivery of these types of outputs - the ones that resemble 'products' and are expected to be used by external stakeholders. 
* [name=Kirstie] This short week is confusing me to no end! (I stopped work on Tuesday to drive to London at 3pm so I feel like Wednesday was really my Monday :sweat_smile:)
  * I'm SO PROUD of my GitHub actions to push PDF versions of markdown docs to GitHub AND ping a version on Slack
    * https://github.com/KirstieJane/fun-with-automation/actions
    * Outstanding issue that the converter doesn't include emojis :sob: 
      * Issue raising it with the developer though: https://github.com/BaileyJM02/markdown-to-pdf/issues/14
  * I also put a MASSIVE "weekly" update in for the whole month of April (felt really good to actually catch up) if anyone wants to review!
    * https://github.com/WhitakerLab/WhitakerLabProjectManagement/pull/470
* [name=Malvika Sharan] I spent a day writing a blog post for SSI  and got too carried away (it's double the length for a blog) -  I have left it to other folks who were supposed to write it with me to cut it short for the SSI. Meanwhile, it is a chapter in the Turing Way on "[Shared Ownership in Open Source](https://deploy-preview-1858--the-turing-way.netlify.app/collaboration/shared-ownership.html)" ([PR](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pull/1858))
    * Some upcoming things next week in The Turing Way: https://twitter.com/turingway/status/1389560741070520321?s=20
    * :loudspeaker: A community share out event is happening on the last day of Book Dash. Everyone interested in The Turing Way is welcome - no need to contribute, but you can listen in to get an update: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/the-turing-way-community-share-out-and-contributor-celebration-tickets-152668512631?ref=estw
* [name=Laura] Did you know that you're more likely to vote if you make a plan? If you're voting today, feel free to put your plan for voting here as a kind of self-accountability:

### What would you like lab members' opinion(s) on?

* [name=Sowmya] How do I manage my time when I start learning something new for the project? I lose all my time in learning something new at times :laughing: 
  * [name=Sarah] I am actually planning an up-coming meeting on my time/productivity management strategy! :eyes:
  	* [name=Georgia] Yes please, that would be so helpful!
  	* [name=Sowmya] Thank you Sarah, that would actually help me out :) 
  * [name=Emma] Blocking time each day (1-2hrs) to do these tasks is a good way to get it done but ensures you have a cut off time to move on to other things. 
  * [name=Lotty] I'm currently planning all my days and timetabling what I will do during which times. It helps me focus on one thing and easily switching to the next! 
  * [name=Sophia] I have a "what is my focus for the day" and "what are my 3 important items for the day" plan that I do each morning (which checks in if I'm going down a rabbit hole or time suck) and at the end before I sign off for the day I do a "what did I learn today" which helps me check in with if I was orientated towards the goal or not. 
  * [name=Kirstie] All these points are good. I'll also say: learning new things is super important so don't cut yourself short too quickly in the name of "productivity". I think making sure that you keep reminding yourself of WHY you're learning these skills can help avoid rabbit holes... but rabbit holes are also where creativity and the details that allow you to really get to grips with a technology / idea lie... so don't be too judgmental on yourself. These things take time!
* [name=Patricia] The easy one would be to get inspiration from you for what I should spend my Redbubble CollabW21 win on. Will try and think about something more serious, too.
    * [name=Sarah] I'm pretty sure I'm going to get [this](https://www.redbubble.com/i/poster/Stuck-explain-it-to-the-duck-Rubber-Duck-Debugging-Stuck-Funny-Programmer-Coder-by-ProgrammingMeme/65399823.LVTDI) to hang above my desk
    * [name=Malvika Sharan] I spent hours looking into throw pillows. There are designs for everything.
* [name=Arielle] :loudspeaker: TPS (aka me) has volunteered to host a lunch and learn for the rest of the Turing in Sept - now I need to find a topic... any suggestions?
    * [name=Malvika Sharan] I am leading one in June/July I think. They had randomly allocated 'project management' to me, so I went closest to that (which can allow me to introduce The Turing Way) - "Remote Collab" or "Project Design" -> they asked me to pick whatever I like, so I picked "Remote Collab" as I feel most people would find that interesting. (*sharing both in case they help brainstorm - also, you are welcome to reuse the project design one if you find that interesting).*
      * **Project design**: Effective methods for project design are crucial to the success of a research project. Particularly in a research environment, design principles can lead to better communication, collaboration and decision making in the project. Project design encompasses a variety of aspects, starting from defining the purpose, roles and responsibilities, expected users and target audience, available resources and skills required in the project. It is also important to explore the possible outcomes, plans to address expected challenges, ensure diversity of stakeholders and reduce possible barriers to participation. In this session, we will introduce The Turing Way ([https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way)) and discuss good practices for designing and managing projects. In particular, we will exchange experiences around designing projects for inclusion and selecting effective processes for onboarding, collaboration, acknowledgement, communication and project sustainability. 
      * **Remote collaboration**: Remote collaboration has become a commonly used term at our workplace ever since we started to work from home due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Though we have experienced a drastic change in our work culture, we have also identified remote collaboration as an extremely valuable way to remove barriers to participation by members in a distributed teams. In this session, we will introduce The Turing Way ([https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way)) and discuss what remote collaboration means to different roles such as project leaders, researchers, support staff, event organisers, community builders and external collaborators. In particular, we will exchange experiences around how remote collaboration has been useful as well as challenging for you.
* [name=Emma] A question about Community Building - *What motivation do you have when you join a new community?* Does there always have to be a selfish (meaning in a nice way :grin:) reason or incentive? such as career progression, training, etc.  Or are we all in it for the good fight? 
    * [name=Sarah] I normally get involved because I want to be able to do something with a tool and contributing upstream is more sustainable than me maintaining a fork. So totally selfish reasons to begin with. _If_ I end up staying, it's because the community is awesome!
    * [name=Lotty] I think also if you're super passionate about something and want to meet others that are similar and learn from them and they learn from you etc. Motivation of knowledge gain and share?
    * [name=Arielle] It really depends on the community - there's plenty I'm not involved in because of incentives outside of my career and day-to-day work. The ones I'm involved with on the career side of things are because I enjoy being involved but also envisage benefits for me from skill sharing and development. What I don't do is contribute to communities I don't like being a part of!
    * [name=Malvika Sharan] For me it is about how I can do what I like/offer -> while I also get to learn something that can be used somewhere else. Some are for career point of view, and some are using my place for something good.
    * [name=Kirstie] I think joining doesn't need a selfish reason but I do think staying needs some justification otherwise you end up with a very homogenous group who are all motivated in the same way.
      * My bigger point here is that I don't think it is a conscious choice for most people. I feel a bit like "join our community" sounds too serious for most folks, whereas "we're just a bunch of people getting together for a chat" is more accessible.
        * I think "community" means more to us who have thought about it a lot than folks who haven't.
* [name=Lotty] I heard in a talk the other day something on research life cycle - now I've experienced a lot of project life cycles in the civil service but feel like a research project life cycle would be different! Where can I find out more about research life cycles (if that's even the correct term)? :four_leaf_clover: 
    * [name=Sophia] oooooh this feels like a difficult one as there's the shiny level of research that gets reported (ie. gantt charts, research proposals, final papers, lab notebooks) but most of the actual actual process doesn't entirely get captured in one single place. If I come across any resources in the next few days I'll drop them here :)
    * [name=Kirstie] Daphne and I wrote a fun paper about data science across the scientific lifecycle if that's useful? https://elifesciences.org/articles/43979
* [name=Laura] I'm thinking of taking a few days off soon. What's some nice things that you have done for yourself, that can be done in the place where you normally live and work and relax, and where other people will also be trying to work? 
    * [name=Patricia] This won't be a surprise but jigsaws! 
    * [name=Lotty] self-care sundays (but can be done any day of the week) which for me included face masks, doing my nails and listening to music.
    	* [name=Georgia] +1 (also scented candles) 
    * [name=Sarah] Pick up cross-stitching? :wink: https://sgibson91.github.io/cross-stitch-carpentry/
      * [name=Kirstie] :point_up::100: 
    * [name= Arielle] Catching up on fiction books, binge watching Netflix shows no one else wants to watch (probably through headphones), long bubble baths, cooking more elaborate meals than usual, day in bed (assuming work space and living space are separate). Most of these will vary on how disruptive they are to people trying to work by your living set up.  
	* [name=Georgia] One thing I've found rewarding in the past few weeks has been writing letters for friends who it's been hard for me to see over lockdown. I found for me it creates an interesting change of pace and attention.
	* [name=Kirstie] Big hikes outdoors. They make you super tired so you sleep more which is good for everything!
* [name=Georgia] What did I miss in April?! 
    * [name=Sarah] One weekend of summer in London?
        * [name=Sophia] HA!! 
    * [name=Malvika Sharan] Let's meet for a coffee - we should catch you up. :sweat_smile: 
*   [name=Aida] How should I organise folders in an ASG github repo? Should I mirror what we normally do on Google-Drive/Dropbox/Sharepoint? Importantly, I want researchers across all of ASG to feel comfortable uploading their slides and other info to the github repo. Should I create empty folders for each Theme/Project, and just ping the relevant people to remind them to contribute? 
  * [name=Kirstie] This is a great chapter for the Turing Way. And the DECOVID Engage at Turing students are thinking about this  - want me to ping them in the Turing slack?
    * I can brainstorm this with you as you get some ideas down - I have so many opinions about folder design!
* [name=Kirstie] GAH - so late - BUT I want to pick up on a point from **Georgia** above about slack use.
  * I think some folks find slack very energising and I have certainly seen a BIG improvement in connections across projects as a result of deeper engagement in the lab meetings & slack workspaces.
  * BUT I know some folks find the constant "pings" (audio or visual) really distracting.
  * Georgia is going to trial having one hour per day dedicated to catching up on slack and engaging and I want to invite others who feel they need some of those same boundaries to try too.
    * The key points me and the :goat: herder for the week will need is _which_ hour will you dedicate to being available on slack? That way we (I) know when we can grab you for specific questions / discussion.
    * Connecting with others in the lab - including on their projects and the work that they're doing _is_ part of your job (if you're line managed by me!) So it is important that this time is set aside and used appropriately.
  * Would you also like a channel called - something like - #whitakerlab-notices which is where we'd put important updates that _have_ to be read? To try to make it easier for folks scrolling back through the conversations?
 
## Agenda

* Go through hackmd
* Professional bios (Kirstie or Malvika to lead)
    * Before the session: If you have a professional bio already, please have it to hand! You won't need to share it, but it will be a good place to start. 
* Writing your professional bio - Content by Letisha Wyatt and Robin Champieux
    * Figshare Link: https://figshare.com/articles/presentation/THE_FUNDAMENTALS_OF_PROMOTING_YOUR_PROFESSIONAL_SELF_CREATING_A_BIO_THAT_WORKS/6365407/1
        * **Explain what you do + Establish credibility + Describe your professional or reserach interest + Brag a little + Call to action**
